Palace



A palace is a place with a grand and imposing building that is the official residence of a king or queen, a head of state such as a president, ruler, or leader. Many historical palaces are now museums that show what royal and aristocratic life was like when it was built.



Besides, it can mean a luxurious house or mansion (like Biltmore Mansion or Hearst Castle) or a large building for entertainment: a large public or private building with an imposing ornate style, used for entertainment or exhibitions and large events.



Hasidic Judaism



Hasidic Judaism or Hasidism is a Jewish religious movement that was started by Rabbi Israel ben Eliezer, known as "Baal Shem Tov". It began in Eastern Europe in the middle of the 18th century, and there are now Hasidic communities all over the world. The followers of Hasidism are called Hasids.



Hasidism teaches about the importance of serving God with happiness and believes in Jewish mysticism. While Hasidim study the same books of Torah as the rest of Judaism, they focus on learning the hidden aspects of the text as well. Hasidic study also includes many of the teachings of Kabbalah.



Hasidism has strict laws about physical contact between the genders, Hasidic men will not even shake hands or make any physical contact with unrelated members of the opposite gender and Hasidic women will not make any physical contact with unrelated members of the opposite gender and also limit conversation.



Each Hasidic group has a leader who is called the Rebbe (Rabbi). The Rebbe is a man who is a Rabbi and is chosen by the Hasidim to be their leader. Some of the jobs that he does are giving lectures on Torah and Hassidic-matters and taking part in the different events of his Hasidim, like weddings and Brit milahs.



There are hundreds of different Hasidic groups. They all share similar characteristics but they also have individual customs. Some of the larger dynasties are Satmar, Chabad-Lubavitch, Bobov, Viznitz, and Belz.



Lissa Explains it All



Lissa Explains it All is a website. It teaches beginners and children HTML as well as other things like JavaScript to help them make a website. It was made by Alyssa "Lissa" Daniels (born 1986) in 1998.



Lissa did not plan on teaching HTML at first. She was an 11 year old girl who wanted to make a website but had problems remembering the HTML codes. She saved the codes on a webpage. Many people who saw her website asked her how she made it. Lissa gave them the address (URL) to the webpage she put the codes on. As more and more people went on the page, Lissa added more codes and information, and made the URL it became public.



A year later, so many people went on "Lissa Explains" that Lissa decided she needed a domain name for her website. She bought the domain name, lissaexplains.com. The website name was changed to "Lissa Explains it All". Soon, even more people went on "Lissa Explains", and her web hosters told Lissa that she would have to buy a plan that costed $100 a month. Lissa was upset because her parents would not pay so much money for her website.



"Lissa Explains" was a popular website that had a lot of visitors, so Lissa filled out many forms at agencies. The agency would pay her money to put their advertisements on her website, "Lissa Explains". The money she made paid for her web hosting and other services on her website. The company that hosts "Lissa Explains" now is Dreamhost.



Now, with even more visitors, Lissa had to change the layout and design of her website again. She got rid of a lot of the pictures on her website to save money and bandwidth space. It changed from this to this, the way it looks right now.



Lissa's website was the first website that taught children HTML. Many people know about it, and it is being copied. For example, Lissaexplainsitall.com has a URL that is almost the same as "Lissa Explains", and it also has something to do with web design and HTML.



Other than teaching HTML, Lissa Explains also has other services. Lissa teaches HTML, JavaScript, CSS, how to use frames and tables, and how to make a trailing cursor.

In April 2008 the website for LissaMail expired, leading to the conclusion that this service is no longer being provided.

Lissa has postcards that users can send to their friends. 

Lissa's Color Slider lets users choose a color in the shade they want and get the hexadecimal color code for it. She also has a color wheel for people who have Internet Explorer. 

Lissa's HTML Editor converts and changes formatted text into HTML codes.



At Lissa's Meta Tag generator, users can get the HTML code to make META tags.





Aeneid



The Aeneid (Latin: "Aeneis") is an epic poem written by Virgil between 29 and 19 BC. It tells the story of "pious Aeneas".



Aeneas is a Trojan warrior who had to leave his city because the Greeks captured Troy after a long war. It starts with Aeneas carrying his father Anchises out of the burning Troy. It ends with Aeneas landing on the shores of Italy, fighting in the region of Rome. It can be read as indirect propaganda in favour of Augustus, the Roman Emperor of the day.



The story is written in hexameters, a type of verse.



Quincy, Illinois



Quincy is a city in the state of Illinois in the United States. In 2020 the number of people in the city was 39,463. The town was an important stop of the underground railroad during the 1800s. The town also has many German-style buildings.



Rent



Rent can mean different things:





Bunk bed



A bunk bed is a stack of two or more beds. Metal poles or wooden beams connect the bottom bed (called the bottom bunk) to the top bed (called the top bunk). A ladder is used to get up to the top bunk. The ladder is usually attached to the bed. 



In the Philippines, a bunk bed is called a double deck. Bunk bed is a modern solution; crafted when a one-bed frame is placed on top of another, making a rigid structure of two or more beds. 



This way two beds are compacted together to form a single bed which is efficient. A bunk bed occupies less floor area, it is equal to the space normally necessary for only one bed.



Bunk beds are often used in children's rooms. Since bunk beds allow a family to put two beds in the space of a single bed, bunk beds save space. Bunk beds help families with small apartments or houses to have enough beds for their children.



A bunk bed is also called ‘the wider bed’, which means both the top and bottom are of the same wider size. They are essential furnishing items that hostels, dormitories, colleges, and schools prefer to install. 



Bunk beds are often used in institutions such as prisons. As well, they are often used in public facilities such as homeless shelters and bomb shelters. Bunk beds are also used in firehalls, to give firefighters a place to sleep. Many military organizations use bunk beds. 



Navy ships and submarines use bunk beds for the sailors to sleep in. Army barracks sometimes have bunk beds for soldiers to sleep in.



Summer camps and winter cabins for children (such as boy scouts or girl scouts) often have bunk beds. Hostels, a type of inexpensive hotel for travelers, often have bunk beds. Some ski lodges have bunk beds in their rooms.



Cupboard



A cupboard, also known as a cabinet, is furniture used for storage. Usually, a cupboard will be in the kitchen or bathroom of a house. It usually has one or more shelves to put items on. It can also have a door to close off the open shelves.





Great Chilean Earthquake



The Great Chilean Earthquake or Valdivian Earthquake was the most powerful earthquake ever recorded. The quake occurred in the early evening (19:11 UTC) of May 22, 1960, and had a 9.5 rating on the Moment magnitude scale. The earthquake affected southern Chile, Hawaii, Japan, the Philippines, and the Aleutian Islands in Alaska. 



Its epicenter was Valdivia, Chile. The earthquake caused tsunamis that pounded the Chilean coastline with waves of up to 25 meters. The main tsunami traveled across the Pacific Ocean and caused great damage to Hilo, Hawaii. Waves as high as 10.7 meters (about 35 feet) were recorded 10,000 kilometers from where the earthquake started. These waves travelled as far as Japan and the Philippines.



The total number of deaths from the earthquake and subsequent tsunami in Chile has been estimated at 490 to 5700. The Chilean government estimated 2 million people were left homeless and the damage was $550 million USD.





Photographer



A photographer (from Greek φῶς ("phos"), meaning "light", and γραφή ("graphê"), meaning "drawing, writing", together meaning "drawing with light") is someone who is skilled at taking pictures or photographs with a camera. An "amateur photographer" takes pictures for their own use. A "professional photographer" takes pictures as all or part of their job. Many people hire a photographer for their wedding, "debutante" party or other special events. Photographers work in many different specialties.



There are several different kinds of photography. Each type requires a different set of skills. Some examples include:



Spiro Agnew



Spiro Theodore Agnew (November 9, 1918 – September 17, 1996) was the 39th vice president of the United States. He served under President Richard Nixon. He was also the 55th governor of the state of Maryland and the first Greek American governor and vice president in United States history.



