Globalization



Globalization is the spread of products, technology, information, and jobs across nations.



It is a term which may be used broadly to mean doing things as distant people do them, or more narrowly to mean complying to global standards in economy, politics, culture, education, environment or other matters. It describes the way countries and people of the world interact and integrate. Many things have become globalized as people come into contact.



Economic globalization is how countries are coming together as one big global economy, This is all making international trade easier. In the late 20th century, many people agreed to lower tariffs, or taxes on goods that are imported from other countries. Telegraphy and bull other communication technologies have helped people to buy and sell products from around the world, thus bringing globalization. Herman E. Daly has said that there is an important difference between internationalization and globalization. Internationalization is about nations working together for the same goals. These are things like treaties, alliances, and other international agreements. Globalization is about international trade that are 

being less blocked by national borders.



Political globalization is how institutions and countries can influence the whole world. The United Nations are an example of globalization because most countries of the world are members of its General Assembly. This international organization can make countries follow rules and apply economic sanctions to a country that doesn't. This means the countries in the U.N will punish them by not talking or trading with them, so they don't benefit from globalization.



Cultural globalization is how culture is becoming homogeneous, which means that people from all over the world act in similar way. For example, many people around the world write with the Latin alphabet, wear T-shirts and jeans and watch Hollywood movies and other media.



Some people, like Noam Chomsky, do not like globalization because they feel it only helps rich people get richer by making poor people poorer. Offshore outsourcing, such as a company hiring workers in a developing country, is often a part of globalization. This sometimes means that some people in a developed country lose their jobs. Joseph Stiglitz said that international groups like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) have made it harder for poorer nations to get richer. Globalization also means that problems from other countries will affect your country. For example, the Great Depression of the 1930s started in the United States but affected the entire world.



Many countries also dislike it when international organizations such as the United Nations tell them what to do. However they obey to avoid sanctions. Many people also criticize the fact that globalization means that fewer people are deciding what brands, like Coca-Cola and McDonald's, taking over smaller, local shops and businesses. They criticize the fact that powerful countries have bigger influence on world culture than others. For example, the United States is the biggest cultural exporter, which means that countries around the world are becoming like the United States. However, this hurts local cultures. Jean Baudrillard believes that globalization hurts local cultures and is the cause of most terrorism. He also believes that most supporters of globalization just want to stay in power.



Gregory Meyjes interprets globalization as a largely hegemonic, unequal process of socio-cultural imposition. Questioning the various processes (economic, political, cultural) by which globalization or globalisation has favored rapid Anglo-cultural dominance over a more gradual, egalitarian evolution towards an inclusive world civilization, Meyjes argues for cultural policies that support "ecological" relations between local ethnocultural traditions, by protecting cultural specificity in the short term and allow as many cultural groups as possible to organically contribute to the whole. At the global level, Meyjes therefore proposes the term universalization or universalisation to denote a process of (largely) non-imposed socio-cultural exchange between state-level and sub-state-level groups and "nations" – i.e. a transnational process that informs the gradual emergence of a universal civilization.



Others, like Thomas Friedman, believe that globalization can bring people together and make everyone richer without getting rid of local cultures. People who support globalization also believe that it makes war less likely because it is bad for business. Francis Fukuyama also argued that globalization would eventually lead to a system of world governance which would cause wars to end.



Many believe that globalization helps out poorer nations by bringing them business. A report by the World Bank said that poverty in India and Indonesia was cut in half because of globalization. The report also said that people in poorer nations are living longer and better because they were making more money.







North Holland



North Holland is a province (area with a local government) of the Netherlands. It is in the northwest. The capital is called Haarlem. Other cities in the province are Amsterdam, Hilversum, Alkmaar, Zaandam, and Hoorn. About 2,888,000 people are living in North Holland (2021).



Folk music



Folk music is music that represents the tradition or culture of the area, place or state. It is traditional music that people learn by listening to other people playing it and then copying them. We say that the tradition is "orally transmitted" or "handed down orally", meaning that the music is not written down but taught by speaking ("oral" means "belonging to the mouth"). Every country has its own traditional music. Folk song is part of folk music. A folksinger is a person who sings folk songs.



There are three categories of Folk Music:



In the 1960s a new type of music was started by Bob Dylan who mixed traditional folk song with rock and roll. This music is sometimes called "folk rock". 



Folk music is music for everybody to play and listen to. In this way it is different from classical music which is mainly developed by professional musicians for a smaller group of people. Folk music is part of a popular culture, although the term "popular music" or "pop music" today refers to a kind of music which people can hear through television, radio and other means of recording.



In many parts of the world nearly all music is folk music. The term "folk music" is usually used for European and American music which is part of an oral tradition. Folk music as an oral tradition, is much less important than before, in part because of new technology (radio, television etc, and recordings of music). Folk tunes are now often written down, and they have influenced other kinds of music, so that the differences between various types of music are harder to see.



In older times folk music was part of "communal recreation". This means that small communities such as villages or families would relax by playing and singing music together. People would often make up a new song or new piece of music, or make changes to music that they already knew. In this way music was always changing. People would get musical ideas from other groups nearby. This is why folk music from neighbouring countries often sound similar.



Ballads were a popular kind of folk music. These were folk songs which told a story (they were "narrative"). Sometimes they had a refrain after each verse so that everybody could join in. Ballads told stories of love, myths or folklore. This is how stories were handed down from one generation to another.



Instrumental folk music was used for dancing. Some of the instruments may have been very simple, such as a pair of sticks, rattle or a simple drum. Other instruments may include fiddle (the folk word for "violin"), bagpipes, harp, zither, or various wind instruments, depending on the time of history and the country.



Some singing was polyphonic, i.e. there were two or more parts (voices). Very often two voices would sing in parallel (going up and down together). In countries such as Russia persons sings in three or four parts, e.g. in the tradition of "podgolosnaya" ("underneath the voice"). In countries, such as Britain, this polyphonic tradition did not exist. Folk songs there were sung by one singer, unaccompanied.



Folk music used different scales. These are called modes. The Ionian mode (major scale) was the most common in Western Europe. In some parts of Eastern Europe modes with several semitones were used, but for the most part, half steps were avoided. This results is the tunes being described as tetratonic (four notes per octave) or pentatonic (five notes per octave).



Folk music also includes simple children's songs and lullabies.



Folk music was sung by people as they worked. In the early days of European immigration in America the pioneers sang as they travelled, cowboys sang as they worked, slaves sang in the cottonfields.



In the 18th century folk music started to have an influence on classical music (or "art music"). People from the higher classes started to be interested in folk music because they were conscious of being part of a tradition. Composers such as Mozart and Schubert wrote folk dances for orchestras or small groups of instruments.



Folk music was used by many composers in the Romantic period. Gustav Mahler used folk song in a lot of his music. In the early twentieth century some composers travelled around collecting folk music which was being played or sung by people in the country. They often used some of these ideas in their music. Bartok did this in Hungary as well as in Bulgaria and in the United States, and people such as Cecil Sharp and the composer Ralph Vaughan Williams collected folk music in England. In the United States the influence of jazz on classical music is all part of the story of folk music.





Abraham



Abraham (originally Abram) is a man in the Book of Genesis and the Qur'an. There, he is said to be the father of all Jews. This is because he is their ancestor. Abraham is part of the Jewish, Christian and Islamic religions. Abraham is considered the father of these three religions, which are called Abrahamic religions.



Abraham is the father of Isaac with his wife Sarah. He also has Ishmael with Hagar, Sarah's handmaid, and he has other children with Keturah, whom he marries after Sarah's death. He is the grandfather of Jacob and Esau. Abraham is believed to be the founding patriarch of the Israelites, Ishmaelites and Edomites. Abraham was the son of Terah and the grandson of Nahor (son of Serug). Abraham's older brothers were named Nahor (son of Terah) and Haran.



In the Book of Genesis, Abraham leaves his home in Mesopotamia for Canaan because the Almighty told him to go there and become the ancestor of a great nation. At the time, his name was Abram but then the Almighty told him to circumcise himself and all his sons and that “the uncircumcised male who dwells among you, his soul shall be cut off, for he has rejected my covenant” and after his circumcision Abram changed his name to Abraham.



When Abraham was circumcised, the Almighty told him that his wife Sarah would give birth to a son but Abraham laughed because of how old he was and asked the Almighty to give a blessing to Ishmael. The Almighty told Abraham that he would bless Ishmael and that Sarah would give birth to a son whose children would inherit what the Almighty promised Abraham. 



After Abraham’s circumcision three angels pretending to be humans came to him and told him that in one year his wife Sarah would give birth to a son but she laughed since Abraham was 100 years old (and she was 90) but the angels said that nothing is impossible for the Almighty. One year later, Sarah gave birth to a son. Abraham circumcised him and named him Isaac because of the laughter. Years after Hagar and Ishmael were sent away, the Almighty told Abraham “take your son, your only one, whom you love Isaac and sacrifice him” and Abraham took Isaac to a mountain to be a human sacrifice but then the Almighty sent an angel to Abraham to stop him from killing Isaac and said that “I have seen that you are indeed a God fearing man since you have not withheld your son, your only one from me” so Abraham sacrificed a ram instead of Isaac. And Abraham named the place Yireh.



After Abraham’s wife Sarah died when she was 127 years old, Abraham bought the Cave of Machpelah from Ephron the Hittite for 400 shekels and buried Sarah there. He then sent his servant to find a wife for Isaac. Then Abraham married Keturah and became the father of many children. Abraham died when he was 175 years old and Isaac and Ishmael buried him next to Sarah in the Cave of Machpelah.



According to a midrash in the Talmud, when Abraham was young, his father Terah told him to take care of his store selling idols but instead Abraham destroyed them except the biggest one and told Terah that it had destroyed the rest and Terah told him that idols are mindless statues and not deities so they couldn’t have done that. Then Abraham asked Terah why he worshipped them so Terah took him to King Nimrod who tried to kill him by burning him in a furnace but a miracle saved Abraham. So Nimrod asked Abraham’s brother Haran what he believed and Haran said he believed in the deity of Abraham because He would save him with a miracle. Then Nimrod threw Haran to the furnace and he died and Nimrod sent away Terah and his family. And then the Almighty told Abraham to go to Canaan.


