Morality



Morality is the concept of doing the right thing. Morals are basic guidelines for living.



Many people have written about ways of choosing what the right thing is. Some believe that there is an objective (true even if you do not agree with it) morality, often thinking it was set by God or another similar being; others think that morality is subjective (that what is good or bad is a community choice).



People can learn morals from religion, parents, friends, school, books, or from ethical traditions. People that teach or follow morals are called moralists.



It can also be a lesson that someone learns in a book or story. It is usually one line at the end of the story ("The moral of this story is..."). Fables are stories with a moral. 



The opposite of "moral" is "immoral", meaning the wrong thing to do. "Amoral" means something that is not related to morality, or has no morally good or bad aspect to it. It is the same as "morally neutral". Morality means that you can tell between a right and a wrong thing.



Some morally correct things to do are



•Eat healthy



•Sleep well



•be polite



•use your brain



•use common sense



•Don't smoke



•Don't drink alcohol



•Don't murder





Saliva



Saliva is the watery substance made in the mouths of humans and many animals. Saliva begins digesting food in the mouth, and moistens food to make swallowing easier. Saliva consists of 99.5% water.



The mouth is obviously the point of entry to the whole alimentary canal. It follows from this that saliva must both help digestion, and protect against infections.



The digestion part is by three enzymes, one each for carbohydrates, fats and proteins. The digestion started here carries on in the stomach. There are some other 'minor' enzymes as well, and we do not know the full story about them yet. Also there is a pain-killing opiorphin, and a wrap-around haptocorrin which keeps vitamin B12 safe from stomach acids. Finally, there are a set of anti-bacterial proteins which make life difficult for any bacteria which get in with the food.



Saliva is filtered blood, "These observations are consistent with the fact that saliva is a filtrate of blood, meaning that the contents of blood—water, salts and macromolecules—pass through capillary walls into the salivary glands." Source: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2741028/#:~:text=These%20observations%20are%20consistent%20with,walls%20into%20the%20salivary%20glands.



Villarosa



Villarosa is a town in the province of Enna, in the region of Sicily in southern Italy. 





True bug



The true bugs are an order of insects. Biologists call true bugs the Hemiptera. There are around 80,000 species of true bugs. The word "bug" by itself can have other meanings.



There are many different kinds of true bugs, some of which are aphids, cicadas, planthoppers, shield bugs, and others. All of these are true bugs. Their size is from 1 mm to over 10 cm. All true bugs have similar mouthparts, which they use to suck up plant sap.



Bugs have piercing, sucking mouthparts: this defines the Hemiptera. They pierce plants with their long, tube-like mouth, called a proboscis or a beak. They cannot chew. The true bug pumps saliva through this mouth, to partly digest their food. It then sucks up the food, which is usually plant sap.



The name "Hemiptera" is from the Greek: it means "hemi" (half) and "pteron" (wing). Most true bugs have half of their front wings hardened and have the other half soft. These wings are called "hemelytra" (singular "hemelytron"), because they halfway look like the hard wings (elytra) of beetles. The hind wings are totally soft and are shorter than the front wings.



The antennae of bugs usually have five segments. The tarsi (foot parts) of their legs have three or fewer segments.



Bug



Bug can mean many different things:









Dayton, Ohio



Dayton is a large city in the American state of Ohio. It is where Orville and Wilbur Wright grew up. The Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, also near Dayton, gets part of its name from the Wright brothers. The National Museum of the United States Air Force is inside the Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.



Dayton has a humid continental climate ("Dfa" in the Koeppen climate classification).



Ten people were killed in a mass shooting in Dayton on 4 August 2019.



Native Esperanto speakers



Native Esperanto speakers are people who learned Esperanto as one of their first languages. Esperanto is not spoken in any countries as an official language, so they must become bilingual, trilingual, or multilingual. Native Esperanto speakers can use this language completely and more fluently than non-native Esperanto speakers. There are not very many native Esperanto speakers. It is thought that no more than one or two thousand people speak Esperanto as their first language.



Children who learned Esperanto as one of their first languages speak with grammar like the other languages they learned. 

