Planform



In design planform or plan view is a vertical orthographic projection of an object on a horizontal plane, like a map.



In aviation, a planform is the shape and layout of an airplane's wing. Of all the myriad planforms used, they can typically be grouped into those used for low-speed flight, found on general aviation aircraft, and those used for 

high-speed flight, found on many military aircraft and airliners.



Charlotte Amalie, U.S. Virgin Islands



Charlotte Amalie is the capital and largest city of the United States Virgin Islands. It has about 20,000 people. The city is on the island of Saint Thomas.



Olinda Castielle



Olinda Castielle born "Olinda Borggren" is a Swedish TV personality who was a contestant on the American reality show Joe Millionaire and the first season of the Swedish version of Paradise Hotel.







Plan view



A plan view is an orthographic projection of a 3-dimensional object from the position of a horizontal plane through the object. In other words, a plan is a section viewed from the top. In such views, the portion of the object above the plane is omitted to reveal what lies beyond. In the case of a floor plan, the roof and upper part of the walls may be left out. Basically, a plan view is just another name for the top view of a 3D object.



Floor plan



A floor plan (floorplan) in architecture and building engineering is a diagram, usually to scale, of the relationships between rooms, spaces and other physical features at one level of a structure.



Similar to a map the orientation of the view is downward from above.





Hagåtña, Guam



Hagåtña is the capital city of Guam. About 1050 people live there. The city has an area of about .



Plan (drawing)



Plans are a set of two-dimensional diagrams or drawings used to describe a place or object, or to communicate building or fabrication instructions. Usually plans are drawn or printed on paper, but they can take the form of a digital file.



Because plans represent three-dimensional objects on a two-dimensional plane, the use of views or Graphical projections is crucial the reading of plans.



There are several projection types:





Dededo, Guam



Dededo is the largest city in Guam. Dededo has a population of about 47,000 people. Dededo has an area of about 30 miles.





Albertville, Alabama



Albertville is the largest city in Marshall County, Alabama. Albertville had a population of 22,386 people in 2020. It has an area of about 27 miles, and a height of 1,024 feet. Other cities in Marshall County include Arab.



Besenbüren



Besenbüren is a municipality of the district Muri in the canton of Aargau in Switzerland.



Bettwil



Bettwil is a municipality of the district Muri in the canton of Aargau in Switzerland.



Biberstein



Biberstein is a municipality of the district Aarau of the canton of Aargau in Switzerland.



Arab, Alabama



Arab is a city in Marshall County, Alabama. Arab had a population of 8,461 people in 2020. It has an area of about and a height of above sea level. Other cities in Marshall County include Albertville.



Abbeville, Alabama



Abbeville is a city in the state of Alabama, in the United States. It is the county seat of Henry County. It is part of the Dothan, Alabama Metropolitan Statistical Area. In 2020, 2,358 people lived in Abbeville.



The government of Abbeville is a mayor and a city council. The city council is made up of five people. Each city councilperson is elected from one of five districts in the city.



The coordinates for Abbeville are: (31.566367, -85.251300). According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the size of the city is . This includes of land and 



Abbeville was a colonial town. It is the oldest still standing colonial settlement in eastern Alabama. It's older than Henry County and the State of Alabama. The city was named after a Muscogee Indian man named "Abbe." He was a Native American who lived nearby when the city was started. The name means "a grove of dogwood trees."



In 1819, there was a trading post in Abbeville. (A trading post is a small settlement that has been set up for trading. Trading posts are usually located in remote places.) At this time, the area was part of Alabama Territory.



In 1944, there was a famous civil rights event that happened in Abbeville. An African-American woman was gang-raped by six white men. The men told the police that they had raped her. Two grand juries decided not to take them to court. Because of this, the men were never punished. This event was written about in the book "At the Dark End of the Street."



By 1950, there were 2,162 people living in Abbeville.



In 2020, Abbeville had 2,358 people living there. It was 49.4% white, 44.1% black or African-American, 0.2% Native American, 0.6% Asian, 2.2% other races, and 3.5% mixed race. Of the people in Abbeville, 2.8% were Hispanic or Latino.



Birmenstorf, Aargau



Birmenstorf is a municipality of the district Baden in the canton of Aargau in Switzerland.





Birmenstorf



Birmenstorf is the name of a municipality in Switzerland and in the canton Aargau:

It should not be confused with the Birmensdorf in canton Zürich:



Birr, Aargau



Birr is a municipality in the Swiss canton of Aargau.



Birmensdorf



