Mary Rose



The Mary Rose was a ship which belonged to Henry VIII of England. She sank in 1545 in battle with a French fleet.



In 1979, the "Mary Rose" Trust was formed. In 1982 the "Mary Rose" Trust managed to get the "Mary Rose" out of the sea. In 1994, they started to preserve her. 



The remains of the "Mary Rose" are currently in Portsmouth, England with the HMS "Victory" and HMS "Warrior".



It is not known the exact reason for the sinking. One of the theories is that she had the gun ports open to fire at the French. She then turned to fire at the other side, but the men on board failed to close the gun ports. Sea water got in the open gun ports, which tipped her over and she sank. 



The "Mary Rose" sank because the wind blew and tipped her over. 



Mary Tudor



The name Mary Tudor can refer to either:





1603



1603 (MDCIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday in the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Saturday in the Julian calendar.









Mutiny on the Bounty



The Mutiny on the "Bounty has become a famous story, leading to many books, movies, and songs. The HMS "Bounty was a small, three masted, fully rigged, sailing ship. The "Bounty" became famous when the crew (seamen) mutinied (took over) the ship on 28 April 1789. The captain of the "Bounty" was named William Bligh.



The ship was built in Hull, England in 1784 and was first called "Bethia". In 1787 the ship was rebuilt to carry breadfruit trees. Heat and water were added to the cabins so the trees would survive in cold weather. The British government was hoping the breadfruit trees growing wild in Tahiti could be grown in Jamaica. This would provide cheap food for the slaves working on the sugar farms. The ship was very small - 90 feet 10 inches (27.7 metres) long and 24 feet 4 inches (7.4 metres) wide. The tallest mast was 53 feet (16.1 metres) high.



The "Bounty" was captained by Lieutenant William Bligh and he took command on 16 August 1787. On 23 December, 1787, "Bounty" set off on the long trip to Tahiti. On the journey, William Bligh tried to go around Cape Horn. He tried for over a month but bad weather and winds stopped the ship. The "Bounty" was turned around and went the longer way around the Cape of Good Hope.



The "Bounty" reached Tahiti on 25 October 1788. She had been at sea for ten months. The crew stayed for five months and lived on the island. They collected 1015 breadfruit plants. The crew were very happy living in Tahiti and Fletcher Christian fell in love with a Tahitian girl named Maimiti. They did not want to have another long journey and go back to England.

The "Bounty" left Tahiti on 4 April 1789, on the way to Jamaica. On 28 April, near the Friendly Islands, Fletcher Christian led the mutiny (take over). Bligh and 18 sailors were left at sea in a small boat, while Christian and the "Bounty" went back to Tahiti. Christian and a small group of sailors, 11 Tahitian women, and 6 Tahitian men then went to the remote Pitcairn Island. After they arrived they took everything they could from the ship. A sailor called Matthew Quintal, burned and destroyed the "Bounty" on 23 January 1790.



Pitcairn Island is a remote island in the Pacific Ocean. The Polynesians knew about the island and people had once lived there. There was nobody living on Pitcairn when it was discovered by an English sailor, Philip Carteret on 2 July 1767. He made a mistake and marked it on the map 200 miles from its real location. The people from the "Bounty" had the remote island to themselves. There was a lot of fighting between the new settlers. Fletcher Christian, 4 other mutineers and all 6 of the Tahitian men were killed. One of the 4 surviving mutineers fell off a cliff while drunk. Matthew Quintal was killed by the remaining 2 mutineers after he attacked them. When the American seal-hunting ship "Topaz" visited the island in 1808 they found only 1 mutineer, John Adams, still alive along with 9 Tahitian women. In 1856, the British government moved all the island people to Norfolk Island. Most stayed on Norfolk, but about 22 people found their way back and their descendants still live on Pitcairn. Norfolk has about 1000 "Bounty" descendants, which is about half its population.



Lieutenant William Bligh was able to sail the small boat 6500 km back to Batavia. He returned to England and reported the mutiny to the Admiralty on 15 March 1790. On 7 November 1790, HMS "Pandora" was sent to Tahiti look for the "Bounty" and to bring back the mutineers for punishment. The "Pandora" was able to capture the mutineers left on Tahiti, but could find no sign of the group that was hiding on Pitcairn. The "Pandora" was wrecked on the way back to England.



The following list tells what happened to the crew of the "Bounty".



Two died before the mutiny:



From the 19 left in the small boat, only 12 got back safely to England



One sailor was killed on the trip to Timor:



One sailor died from disease when they reached Timor:



Three sailors died from disease not long after getting to Batavia:



Two sailors died on their way home from Batavia to England:



Seven sailors were forced to stay on the "Bounty" after the mutiny. There was not room in the small boat. They were all taken prisoner in Tahiti by the "Pandora" to be taken back to England to be charged:



Two of the mutineers who stayed on Tahiti died before the "Pandora" arrived:



Three mutineers who were captured by the "Pandora", drowned in the wreck:



Four mutineers survived the wreck and were taken to England for trial:



Only two of the mutineers who went to Pitcairn died peacefully:





Political virtues



The political virtues were listed by Bernard Crick "In Defense of Politics", 1982. They included but were not limited to: 

take one step, then see its results before taking another

making friends with people you have argued with

giving up some things you want to get those things that are most important to you

people want to have a number of choices that are different from each other

meet the needs of changing times

never be boring



He sees these virtues as a way of avoiding ideology or "absolute-sounding ethic". More virtues will lead to less conflict. None of them can be forced on anyone.



Some other virtues have also been suggested:

humour,

empathy,

initiative

and compassion. "Being brief" or "being positive" are sometimes claimed also to be virtues, but just as many people think they are bad things that only help avoid truth or serious problems.



Lady Jane Grey



Lady Jane Grey, born on October 12, 1537, also known as "The Nine Days Queen," was an English noblewoman who briefly served as queen of England from 10 July to 19 July 1553. Her reign was unsuccessful, and she was subsequently executed by decapitation the following year on February 12, 1554, at the age of 17, charged with high treason.



Jane was born in London, or at her family home of Bradgate Park, Leicestershire, England. She was great-granddaughter of Henry VII by his younger daughter Mary, and a first-cousin-once-removed of Edward VI.



In May 1553, Jane married Lord Guildford Dudley, a younger son of Edward's chief minister, John Dudley, Duke of Northumberland. When the 15-year-old King lay dying in June 1553, he nominated Jane as successor to the Crown in his will, thus subverting the claims of his half-sisters Mary and Elizabeth.



During her short reign, Jane lived in the Tower of London. She became a prisoner there, as the Privy Council decided to change sides and proclaim Mary as queen, on 19 July 1553. Wyatt's rebellion in January and February 1554 against Queen Mary's plans of a Spanish match was the direct cause of Jane's and her husband's execution.



She was the daughter of Henry Grey, Duke of Suffolk, and Lady Frances Brandon (16 July 1517 – 20 November 1559), the daughter of Henry VIII's sister, Mary. She was born on 12 October 1537 and she was probably named after Jane Seymour (c. 1508 or 1509 – 24 October 1537). Jane had two younger sisters, Catherine (b. 1540) and Mary (b. 1545).



Jane's parents were very strict even by the standards of the day. If she made mistakes in her studies or had any other normal troubles, her mother would slap her or beat her. She found she loved her nurse, but otherwise lived a sad childhood.



She told a visiting scholar Roger Ascham: 



"For when I am in the presence of either Father or Mother, whether I speak, keep silence, sit, stand or go, eat, drink, be merry or sad, be sewing, playing, dancing, or doing anything else, I must do it as it were in such weight, measure and number, even so perfectly as God made the world; or else I am so sharply taunted, so cruelly threatened, yes presently sometimes with pinches, nips and bobs and other ways ... that I think myself in hell".



