Hydrostatic equilibrium



Hydrostatic equilibrium happens when the pull of gravity is balanced by a pressure gradient which creates a pressure-gradient force in the other direction. The balance of these two forces is known as the hydrostatic balance. It flattens the surface of undisturbed liquids.



Right ascension



Right ascension (abbreviated RA; symbol α) is the astronomical word for one of the two coordinates of a point on the celestial sphere when using the equatorial coordinate system. It is the celestial counterpart to longitude. The other coordinate is the declination.



The moon, planets and stars all have their own right ascension. Many of them are listed in an almanac. Using arithmetic, the object’s right ascension and declination indicate where to look in the sky to see the object.





Declination



Declination (abbrev. dec or δ) is a word used in astronomy to describe one of the two coordinates of the equatorial coordinate system, the other being either right ascension or hour angle. Dec is comparable to latitude, projected onto the celestial sphere, and is measured in degrees north and south of the celestial equator.



Retrograde and direct motion



Direct motion is the motion of a planetary body in a direction similar to that of other bodies within its system, and is sometimes called prograde motion.



Retrograde motion is motion in the opposite direction. In the case of celestial bodies such as the retrograde Carme group of moons, such motion may be real, defined by the natural rotation or orbit of the body. 



Every so often a planet "seems" to change direction and go the other way for a short period of time (in relation to the fixed stars). It makes a "retrograde loop" or squiggle in its track before carrying on as normal. This apparent retrograde motion, however, is only seen because the Earth is moving. It is only seen when outer planets are near opposition. 



Prograde or direct motion is usually the case. That is because "both the star and its planets formed out of the same disk of gas". By definition the disk rotates all in the sane direction because gravity links all the objects which are formed by the shrinking of the primordial disk of gas.



All eight planets in the Solar System orbit the Sun in the direction of the Sun's rotation, which is counterclockwise when viewed from above the Sun's north pole. Six of the planets also rotate about their axis in this same direction. 



