Narre Warren railway station



Narre Warren Railway Station is a railway station in Myki Zone 2, located in Narre Warren, Victoria. The station is on the Pakenham Line.



The station opened four years after the railway between Dandenong and Pakenham was built, on 10 March 1882. It was built as a single platform station.



In 1956, a second rail from Dandenong was built, serving the new platform 2. In 1962, the new rail from Dandenong was extended to Berwick.



In October 2004, the Narre Warren-Cranbourne Road underpass was built.



In July 2021, a new Narre Warren station was proposed, this would move the station to a sky rail design, similar to those up the line at Carnegie, Murrumbeena, and etc. The construction started very soon after. The new station is said to be built by 2025.



Premium station



A Premium station is a term used in the Melbourne train system for a station where there are better things than the other stations. There are currently 72 stations like this. All 5 City Loop stations are Premium stations, as well as the following stations -



Gary the Snail



Gary the Snail is SpongeBob's pet snail who lives with him in their pineapple house. He meows and acts like a cat. He cannot talk but SpongeBob can understand him. Gary is usually shown to be very smart.



Walker Percy



Walker Percy (May 28, 1916–May 10, 1990) was an American author. He wrote a novel called "The Moviegoer". 



Talcott Parsons



Talcott Parsons (December 13 1902 – May 8 1979) was an American sociologist. He created a type of sociology called structural functionalism. Parsons worked at Harvard University from 1927 to 1973. 



Edward Hopper



Edward Hopper (July 22, 1882 – May 15, 1967) was an American painter. He created paintings called "The Nighthawks" or "Chop Suey".





Elias Canetti



Elias Canetti (July 25, 1905 – August 14, 1994) was an Bulgarian-Swiss Jewish author who wrote "Crowds and Power". A mountain in Antarctica is named for him.



Gao Xingjian



Gao Xingjian (born January 4, 1940), is a Chinese-French writer. He was awarded the 2000 Nobel Prize in Literature.



He is also a stage director and a painter.





English Renaissance drama



English Renaissance drama is sometimes called Elizabethan drama, since its most significant developments started when Elizabeth I was Queen of England from 1558 to 1603. But this name is not very accurate; the drama continued after Elizabeth's death, into the reigns of King James I (1603–1625) and his son King Charles I (1625–1649). Shakespeare, for example, started writing plays in the later years of Elizabeth's reign, but continued into the reign of James. When writing about plays from James's reign, scholars and critics sometimes use the term Jacobean drama; plays from Charles I's reign are called Caroline drama. (These names come from the Latin forms of the two kings' names, "Jacobus" for James and "Carolus" for Charles.) But for the subject as a whole, terms like English Renaissance drama or theatre are more accurate.



The year 1576 was a key date in this subject, since that is when the first permanent theatre building was built in London. It was called simply The Theatre, because it was the only place of its kind in England at the time. Before 1576, plays were acted in public halls and large houses, and in inns and public squares and courtyards and other open spaces, by troops of actors that mostly travelled around the countryside between cities and towns. Once the actors had a permanent place to act plays, they could develop their art without the constant need to travel. The Theatre was followed by other theatres in the London area; there were the Curtain, The Rose, the Swan, the Globe, and others too. More plays were written by more playwrights to fill these theatres.



Playwrights worked in both the classic types of drama, tragedy and comedy. They also began their own type of history play, mainly about earlier English kings and the events of their reigns. Shakespeare's "Richard III" and Marlowe's "Edward II" are two examples of this type of English history play. Plays were often written in poetry; early plays were mainly in rhymed verse, though as time passed playwrights came to prefer unrhymed blank verse. Prose was also used in some plays, mostly for comedy.



English Renaissance drama grew and developed until 1642, when it suddenly stopped. In the early years of the English Civil War, the Puritans who were fighting King Charles gained control of London and the region around it. The Puritans were against play-acting; they thought it was sinful and immoral. On September 2, 1642, the Puritans forced the London theatres to close, and to stay closed for most of the time until 1660. Then the English Restoration brought a new king, Charles II, who let the theatres re-open. In the 18-year gap between 1642 and 1660, English society had changed a good deal, and a new style of drama rose up in the Restoration era; it is usually called Restoration drama or Restoration theatre.







Blank verse



The term Blank verse means poetry that does not use rhyme.



Blank verse relies on the meter of the lines in the poem to give structure, and to create the feeling of poetry as compared to prose. An example from William Wordsworth's poem "Michael" shows the lack of rhyme and the strict meter in blank verse – each line sticks fairly closely to the pattern of iambic pentameter:



Many critics judge blank verse to be better than rhyme for serious subjects, and many poets have used blank verse for their most important works. Shakespeare used rhyme in his early plays, but in his more mature works like "Hamlet" he preferred blank verse. John Milton wrote "Paradise Lost" in blank verse, including a note at the beginning of the poem saying that rhyming poetry was used to disguise badly written poems, Lord Tennyson used it for "Idylles of the King", and Wordsworth used it for "The Prelude" and "The Excursion". John Keats used rhyme in his "Endymion", his first try at a major poem; for his second attempt, "Hyperion", he switched to blank verse. The longest poems in English literature are written in blank verse, for example "The Fall of Nineveh" by Edwin Atherstone or "King Alfred" by John Fitchett. This last is about 130 000 lines long.



Many 20th century poets gave up both rhyme and the strict meter of blank verse to write free verse.





Joseph Berg Esenwein, Mary Eleanor Roberts, "Art of Versification". Revised edition. Springfield: 1920.



Cave of Altamira



Altamira (Spanish for 'high view') is a cave in Spain famous for its Upper Paleolithic cave paintings featuring drawings and coloured paintings of wild mammals and human hands. It is located near the town of "Santillana del Mar" in Cantabria, Spain, 30 km west of the city of "Santander". The cave with its paintings has been declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO.



The cave is approximately 300 meters long







Altamira



Altamira could mean any of the following:





F.C. Kuban Krasnodar



FC Kuban () is a Russian football club based in Krasnodar. In 2006 they won promotion to the Russian Premier League. Kuban have previously spent two seasons in Russian Premier League and three seasons in Soviet Top League.



The club was founded as Dynamo in 1928, but was named Neftyanik in 1954, Kuban in 1958, and Spartak in 1960. In 1963 the club was renamed Kuban and has been known by this name ever since.



Kuban and their predecessors mainly played at the lower levels of Soviet football, winning the RSFSR championship four times. Kuban played in the Soviet Top League in 1980-1982, achieving their best result (13th position) in 1981.



In 1992, due to the dissolution of the USSR, Kuban were entitled to play at the top level instead of being relegated to the Second League. They finished 18th out of 20 teams and were relegated. After spending several seasons in First and Second divisions, they won promotion back to the Premier League for 2004, but were again relegated straight away. This happened again in 2006 when they won promotion for the 2006-2007 season and then finished second to bottom.







Liiga



Liiga also known as SM-liiga from 1975 to 2013, is the top professional ice hockey league in Finland. It is generally thought of as one of the top leagues in Europe. It started in 1975. SM is a common abbreviation for "Suomen mestaruus", "Finnish championship".



Aurochs



