Bielefeld



Bielefeld (; ) is a city in northwest Germany, in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia.



Bielefeld has about 327,000 people living there. It has a university.



Maastricht



Maastricht (Limburgish: "Mestreech") is a municipality in the south of the Netherlands. It is the capital city of the province of Limburg.

About 120,000 people live there.

Maastricht has an airport and a university (Maastricht University).



The first settlement in that region was founded in the Stone age about 25000 years ago, the first permanent settlement was founded by the Celts about 500 B.C. Maastricht got City Rights in 1204. Since 1815, after the Napoleonic Wars, Maastricht belongs to the Netherlands. The European Contract of 1992 was signed in Maastricht, the so-called Treaty of Maastricht.



The first settlement was about 25000 years ago. Real permanent settlements (and not just hunter gatherers) were founded at least as early as 5000 B.C. 4000 years after that, the Celts built a settlement in Maastricht. They presumably worshipped a "River God". A Roman city was built around 0 AD, making Maastricht the oldest city of the Netherlands (together with Nijmegen). In this time, Maastricht was called "Trajectum ad Mosam". This means "Road across the Maas". A Roman bridge in Maastricht connected the west with the east, making Maastricht a very strategic point. This bridge - located at Eksterstraat - collapsed in the 13th century, and was replaced by the famous St. Servaas bridge.



In the early middle-ages Maastricht was very important in the spreading of Christianity in the Netherlands. In the 4th century, the bishop St. Servaas was the first bishop in the Netherlands, and the Onze Lieve Vrouwekerk (which also is the oldest still standing building in the Netherlands) could be described as the root of Christianity in the Netherlands. Servaas' remains are still kept in Maastricht in a tomb.



Maastricht received its City Rights fairly early, in 1204. It was of strategic importance during the Eighty Years War and the Napoleonic Wars. Therefore, Maastricht has two forts; "Fort St. Pieter" and "Fort St. Jan". Maastricht also had city walls. Remains of those walls can still be seen today (notably the "Helpoort" is one the few still standing City Ports).

In the beginning of the 20th century, Maastricht was an industrial city, with many factory's. Jan Pieter Minckeleers - a scientist from Maastricht - was the first to discover Coal Gas, making the first city lights available. In 1940, Maastricht was conquered by the German forces. However, many paintings were hidden in the caves at Sint Pietersberg - a steep hill in the south-west of Maastricht. Even De Nachtwacht was hidden there. Maastricht was liberated on 14 September 1944. In 1992 Maastricht was the host-city for the 1992 European Treaty, where the EU was officially formed and a decision was made about the Euro.



Maastricht is located on both sites of the river Maas in the south-east of The Netherlands and the south-west of the province of Limburg. Maastricht lies in a valley, the Maasvalley, so hills surround the city. On the south-west of the city, the famous "St. Pietersberg" is located. On the western edge of the city, there is no space between the city and the Belgian border. On the east, is the "Savelsbos" (a forest). Neighbouring municipality's are Eijsden and Visé (B) in the south, Lanaken (B) and Riemst (B) in the west, Meerssen and Valkenburg in the north, and Margraten in the east.



The city can easily be reached. There is a highway (A2; E25) running from the south to the north (within the Netherlands, this highway runs from Eijsden to Amsterdam). Another highway also begins in Maastricht, the A79 (going to the east). Maastricht has two train stations ("Maastricht" and "Maastricht Randwyck"). Trains are going to Amsterdam, Heerlen, Roermond, and Brussels (B). Plans are made to re-establish the old train route to Lanaken (B). If this connections is to be made again, Maastricht will be accessible from all directions by train.



A few kilometres north of Maastricht, is the Maastricht Aachen Airport. That's the second airport of The Netherlands. 

Maastricht is divided into many areas. The areas "Heer", "Amby", "St. Pieter", and "Wolder" used to be individual villages, but are now (for a few decades) part of Maastricht. According to the Dutch central bureaus of statistics ("Centraal Bureau voor de Statistiek; CBS"), Maastricht can be divided into seven larger districts. These are:







Tourism



History



Higher education and research



Other



Utrecht (city)



Utrecht is a municipality in the Netherlands. It is the capital of the Province of Utrecht and lies in the midst of both the country and the province. About 358,000 were living there in 2020, which makes Utrecht the fourth-largest city in the Netherlands.



Utrecht is an important public transport junction, especially concerning the railways. It contains the largest university of the Netherlands called Utrecht University.



One of the main sights is the Domkerk, a cathedral that was built between 1321 and 1382. In of a storm in 1674, part of the cathedral was destroyed. This part was never rebuilt, so now the tower is separate from the rest of the church.



Utrecht is the main seat of the Roman Catholic Church in the Netherlands, the archbishop resides here.





Groningen (city)



Groningen is a municipality in the north of the Netherlands. It is the capital of the province of Groningen. It has about 233,000 inhabitants (2021) and a university, called the University of Groningen.



Since 2019, Haren and Ten Boer have been part of the municipality of Groningen.







Eindhoven



Eindhoven is a municipality in the south of the Netherlands. It is in the Noord-Brabant province. It has about 236,000 inhabitants (2021) and a well-known football team called P.S.V. Eindhoven.





Nijmegen



Nijmegen is a city in Gelderland in the east of the Netherlands. It has about 177,000 inhabitants (2021) and a university, called Radboud University Nijmegen.



Leiden



Leiden is a municipality in South Holland in the Netherlands. It has about 120,000 inhabitants and a very old university (Leiden University).



Apeldoorn



Apeldoorn is a city in Gelderland in the Netherlands. It has about 160,000 inhabitants. The Het Loo Palace is in Apeldoorn. This was summer home of the Dutch Royal family.



Tilburg



Tilburg is a city in the south of the Netherlands. About 222,000 people live there (2021).



Tilburg is famous for its Schrobbeler, an alcoholic drink.



Tilburg University is in Tilburg.





Zwolle, Netherlands



Zwolle is a municipality and city in the province of Overijssel, the Netherlands. About 130,000 people were living there in 2021. It lies where the Vecht river flows into the IJssel river, on the eastern side of last one.



It lies also in the regions of Salland and IJsselvallei, and is the capital of Overijssel province.



Zwolle got city rights in 1230 and joined the Hanseatic League in 1294.





Haiphong



Haiphong is a city in the north of Vietnam.

It has about 400,000 inhabitants and a marine harbor.

About 1,700,000 people live in the district of Haiphong.

Haiphong is 120 km away from Hanoi, Vietnam's capital, around 60 km away from Ha Long Bay, a popular tourist site, and very close to Cat Ba Island.



Haiphong is Vietnam's third most populated city, with only Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City having more people. It is one of five municipalities of Vietnam, meaning it is a city with the same status as a province.

