Panama



Panama is a country in North America. Its official name is the Republic of Panama, and it's most famous for the Panama Canal. Countries bordering Panama are Costa Rica in the Northwest and Colombia in the Southeast. Panama is between the Caribbean Sea and the Pacific Ocean. Most of the people in Panama are Roman Catholic (about 80%).



The Caribbean coastline has many good natural harbors. However, Cristóbal, at the Caribbean terminus of the canal, had the only important port facilities in the late 1980s. The many islands of the Archipiélago de Bocas del Toros, near the beaches of Costa Rica, made an extensive natural roadstead and shield for the port of Almirante. The over 350 San Blas Islands, near Colombia, are spread out for more than along the sheltered Caribbean coastline.



The population of Panama is about 3,405,813 in May 2010. The ethnic makeup of Panama is:

The information there **Other** is likely including Arabs, East Indians, and some Russian.



For ships, Panama is a flag of convenience.



In 2011 Panama had an unemployment rate of 2.7%. Panama also had a food surplus in August 2008. Panama was ranked at number 60 on the Human Development Index in 2008.



Panama's economy has experienced an economic boom in recent years. Real gross domestic product (GDP) growth was over 10.4% from 2006 to 2008. The Panamanian economy has been one of the fastest growing and best managed in Latin America. Latin Business Chronicle has predicted that Panama will be the fastest growing economy in Latin America in the five-year period of 2010–14.



Panama is impacted by the global financial crisis. It threatens to damage the social gains made in the past few years.



The expansion project of the Panama Canal and the free trade agreement with the United States is expected to boost and extend the economy.



On April 28, 2022, Panama's lawmakers approved a bill that would legalize bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. The bill allows using cryptocurrency and trading it, as well as other related topics. It also allowed citizens to use their cryptocurrency to pay taxes.



Panama is divided into nine provinces. Also, there are five "Comarcas" (literally: "Shires") populated by a variety of indigenous groups.





Spanish language



Spanish (Spanish: "español", pronounced "Eh-span-yole", IPA: /espaɲol/), also called Castilian, is a Romance language. It is the most spoken Romance language in the world. As of December 2021, over 489 million people in the world spoke Spanish as their first language.



The Spanish language came from a dialect of spoken Latin. In 218 BC, it was brought to the Iberian Peninsula by the Romans. After evolving and improving for centuries, it is the world’s 4th most spoken language today with over 489 million native speakers, after English, Mandarin Chinese, and Hindi.



Spanish is used by many people in the world today, partly because Spain traveled and colonized many different parts of the world and created many new countries and governments. The countries with Spanish as an official language are called the Hispanic countries. Most of them are in the Americas, which make up Latin America. They include the following:



In North America, Central America, and the Caribbean Islands: 



In the United States of America and Belize, most people use English, but Spanish is the second-most common language.



In South America: 



Many Brazilians learn Spanish as a second language even though Brazil's official language is Portuguese.



In other parts of the world:



The Spanish language was originally the language of Castile. When the Western Roman Empire collapsed, Latin changed in different ways in different provinces. The Latin spoken in the Iberian Peninsula developed into the Ibero-Romance language in the 6th century. Castilian and Portuguese became separate languages around the 12th century.



In Spain, there are other languages that also came from Latin that are connected to Spanish, like Catalan, and Galician. Basque, also called Euskera or Euskara, is spoken in the Basque region of northern Spain and the southern region of France. Very different from Spanish, Basque is a language isolate since it is not known to have descended from any language family.



Catalan is not a dialect of Spanish and is actually more closely related to French.



Spanish is sometimes called Castellano because Castile is the region in Spain that is the origin of the language. 



The Spanish word for Spanish is "español", and the Spanish word for Castilian is "castellano". In the other Romance languages spoken on the Iberian Peninsula, such as Galician, Catalan, Asturian, and others, Spanish is usually called "Castellán" or "Castellà" instead of "Spanish". In Spain, the name of the subject in schools is "lengua castellana" (Castilian language). However, in the regions of Spain in which people speak only Spanish, people call their language Spanish.



In Portuguese, the word "castelhano" is common to mention Spanish, however, in informal language, the most preferred name for the language is "espanhol". Portuguese, which is spoken in Portugal and Brazil, has many similarities to Spanish.



In 2009, for the first time in history, Spanish was the most common "mother tongue" language of the western world, more than English. It was also the second most common language on Earth, after Chinese. As of 2016, the three most common languages in the world are:







Nahuatl



The Nahuatl language is a language spoken by 1.5 million people, mostly in Mexico.



Nahuatl has existed since the 7th century CE.



The first people to speak Nahuatl were indigenous peoples in central Mexico. The Aztecs and the Toltecs spoke an early form of Nahuatl.



The people of Teotihuacan may have spoken Nahuatl.



Nahuatl has changed since the end of the Aztec Empire. Over time, many different dialects of Nahuatl have developed. Today, people who speak different Nahuatl dialects do not always understand each other.



The words "Mexico," "Guatemala," and "Nicaragua" all come from Nahuatl.



Today, most people who speak Nahuatl live in central Mexico. but A few live in other parts of Mexico or in the United States.



Nahuatl is one of the official languages of Mexico. However, most people who speak Nahuatl now also speak Spanish.



Many phrases that are unique to Mexican Spanish come from Nahuatl, according to John Lipski. The unique phrases are called "Mexicanisms." An example is "ándale, "which often means "let's go." Another example is the word "Bueno?" and is used by many Spanish-speakers when they answer the telephone.



Some English words from Nahuatl origin are:





Stephen Hawking



he is tho

Stephen William Hawking (8 January 1942 – 14 March 2018) was a British theoretical physicist and mathematician. He was born in Oxford. In 1950, he moved to St Albans, Hertfordshire. He was one of the world's leading theoretical physicists. Hawking has written many science books for people who are not scientists.



Hawking was a professor of mathematics at the University of Cambridge (a position that Isaac Newton once had). He retired on 1 October 2009.



Hawking had a motor neurone disease, and because of that he could not move or talk very well. The illness worsened over the years and he was almost completely paralysed. He used a wheelchair to move, and an Intel computer to talk for him. He died on 14 March 2018.



Hawking went to St Albans School, a local public school in Hertfordshire. At 17, he passed an exam to study at Oxford. He studied physics and chemistry there. Because he found it really easy at the beginning, he didn't study a lot for the final exams.



In October 1962 he started his graduate course at Trinity Hall. It was at this time that his illness started to show up. He had difficulties in rowing and then even simply in walking. However, he finished his PhD and wrote about black holes in his thesis. He then got a fellowship (a job as a university teacher) at Gonville and Caius College in 1965.

