Battagram District



Batagram District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. Previously was independent territory. The Batagram Bazar is the head quarter of district.



Battagram obtained the status of district in July 1993 when it was upgraded from a Tehsil and separated from Mansehra District by an executive order. Battagram obtained the status of district in July 1993 when it was upgraded from a Tehsil and separated from Mansehra District by an executive order, Mr. Yousaf Khan Trand (Late provincial Minister in Mir Afzal Khan Cabinet Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) was the leader who struggled for Battagram and made it a separate district, before district it was a tehsil of District Mansehra. It has geographical borders with Kohistan District, Tribal Area Torghar , Shangla District and Malakand Division. The district consists of two sub-divisions It has geographical borders with Kohistan District, Tribal Area Tor ghar , Shangla District and Malakand Division. The district consists of two sub-divisions or Tehsils which contain a total of 20 Union Councils:





Buner District



Buner District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The major language spoken in the region is Pashto. Most people are "Muslim" who follow "Islam".





Charsadda District



Charsadda District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Charsadda is the capital.





Dera Ismail Khan District



Dera Ismail Khan District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Dera Ismail Khan is the capital. It is the most southern district of KPK and has an area of and a population of 852,995 as of the 1998 Census. The main language of the district is a dialect of Saraiki. 





Hangu District



Hangu District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Hangu is the capital.



Haripur District



Haripur District is a district in the Hazara Division of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Haripur is the capital.



Karak District



Karak District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Karak is the capital. This district is the second smallest district in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa after Hangu. The area of this district is 3395 km.



The district of Karak is administratively subdivided into three tehsils.





Tehsil karak is considered as the resources rich tehsil in district karak and here the resorces of gas and oil are discovered. 

Tehsil Banda Daud Shah is also considered as resources rich tehsil having the Pakistan second largest salt mine founds in bahadur khel. 

Tehsil Takhte Nasrati is also known for resources like uranium founds in zarki nasrati.

Kohat District



Kohat District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Kohat is the capital. The Kohati dialect of the Panjabi language is spoken in this district, although outside the province it is influenced by inhabitants of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.





Kohistan District, Pakistan



Kohistan District is a district in the Hazara Division of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The town of "Dassu" is the district headquarters. The area is also called Abasin Kohistan or Indus Kohistan, after the Indus River that runs through the middle of the district.



Kohistan District is divided into 4 Tehsils (subdivisions):





Farming and growing livestock are the main focus of the economy there. Growing timber has also become more important in recent years. The district has one of the lowest literacy rates in Pakistan, about 10% of the people can read and write. Education is spreading though.



Lakki Marwat District



Lakki Marwat District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province of Pakistan. The city of Lakki Marwat is the capital.



Lower Dir District



Lower Dir ( ，) is one of the 27 districts in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is in the north-western part of the province and has an area of 1583 square kilometers.  Timergara city is the district headquarters and largest city.



It used to be one district named Dir but in 1996 it was divided into two, Upper Dir and Lower Dir.The population of lower dir is mainly Yousafzai pashtoon including Clans (khadagzai, Adenzai , Malizai) and partly utmankhel tribe.



At the time of Pakistan's independence in 1947, Dir was a princely state ruled by Nawab Shah Jehan Khan. It was merged in Pakistan in 1969 and later on declared a district in 1970. Later on in 1996 it was divided into Lower Dir and Upper Dir.



Some of Dir is mountainous with peaks rising to 5000 meters.



The population of the Lower Dir district was 797,852 according to the 1998 census report. The population of Dir Lower was predicted to be 1.037.091 in 2005.



Lower Dir is divided into seven Tehsils which contain a total of 41 union councils.

This district is represented by two elected MNA's (Member of National Assembly) in Pakistan National Assembly. Its constituencies are NA-6 & 7.



Qazi Hussain Ahmad won the general elections in 2002 but he left the seat as he had also won from his native constituency. Therefore, in January 2003 another election was held.



The district is represented by five elected MPAs in the provincial assembly.





Malakand District



Malakand District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. 





Mansehra District



Mansehra District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Mansehra is the capital.





Mardan District



Mardan District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Mardan is the capital.





Nowshera District



Nowshera District is a district of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province in Pakistan. The city of Nowshera is the capital.



Peshawar District



Peshawar District is a district in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. The city of Peshawar is the capital. In 1998, the population of the district was 2,019,000, of which 49% were urban.

